"Life of a Godwoken Transaction" and "Life of a Polyjuice Transaction" documentation (#88)
nervosnetwork/godwoken: docs/life_of_a_godwoken_transaction.md

```

This is actually a `WitnessArgs` data structure described [here](https://github.com/nervosnetwork/godwoken/blob/7a9d0e594e2fe80ea9bd4b7c013dc705f4e9f05d/crates/types/schemas/blockchain.mol#L105), and serialized in [molecule](https://github.com/nervosnetwork/molecule)'s format. In the `output_type` field of WitnessArgs, the actual `L2Block` data structure is stored, also serialized in molecule's format:

```
table L2Block {
    raw: RawL2Block,

>     signature: Signature,

Reviewer: This field will be removed soon.

Author: This post is now written against v0.1.0 version, we can update those data structure when the new version is released.

   + In a challenge phase(details will be explained below), the original aggregator submitting the block will need to prove that the marked layer 2 transaction is indeed correct. The aggregator can do this by submitting a cancel challenge request, which executes the marked layer 2 transaction on chain. CKB only accepts valid transaction on chain, which means the layer 2 transaction must succeed for the cancel challenge request to be committed on chain. In a cancel challenge request, aggregator can claim staked tokens from the challenger.
   + If an aggregator fails to prove the validity of the layer 2 transaction via a cancel challenge request, the challenger can claim tokens staked by the aggregator, and revert the chain to the state just before the invalid layer 2 block.
* After a certain amount of time, an unfinalized layer 2 block will become finalized. Finalized layer 2 blocks will be freezed, and cannot be challenged by anyone.

Note this is slightly different from a typical optimistic rollup: here a transaction is executed, only to prove the transaction is valid, while a timeout indicates challenge success in this case.

> In this design, an aggregator offers liquidity costs for staking CKBs used in submitting layer 2 block, as well as layer 1 transaction fees used in the layer 1 transactions containing layer 2 block. In exchange, the aggregator can charge layer 2 transaction fees from layer 2 users. As explained below, layer 2 transaction fees can be paid either in CKB or in any kind of [sUDT](https://github.com/nervosnetwork/rfcs/blob/master/rfcs/0025-simple-udt/0025-simple-udt.md). In fact, Godwoken treat CKB and sUDTs as exactly the same thing in layer 2.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this design, an aggregator bears liquidity costs for staking CKBs, as well as layer 1 transaction fees for the layer 1 transactions containing layer 2 block. In exchange, the aggregator can charge layer 2 transaction fees from layer 2 users. As explained below, layer 2 transaction fees can be paid either in CKB or in any kind of [sUDT](https://github.com/nervosnetwork/rfcs/blob/master/rfcs/0025-simple-udt/0025-simple-udt.md). In fact, Godwoken treat CKB and sUDTs as exactly the same thing in layer 2.
```

## PoA Deployments

> Godwoken is designed based on the assumption that anyone shall be able to issue layer 2 blocks. However, in reality, this might not be feasible for different cases: a public layer 2 blockchain will have additional requirements, that blocks must only be issued at certain intervals to prevent congestions; a private layer 2 blockchain might be only issued by certain parties.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Godwoken is designed based on the assumption that anyone shall be able to propose layer 2 blocks. However, in reality, this might not be feasible for different cases: a public layer 2 blockchain will have additional requirements, that blocks must only be proposed at certain intervals to prevent congestions; a private layer 2 blockchain might be only proposed by certain parties.
```

> This is the reason why Godwoken only uses the type script in a rollup cell. The lock script is thus left to each individual Godwoken deployments, so they can determine the best solution for themselves. Requirements for some might be obstacles for others. As a starting point, and an inspiration for more solutions, a [Proof-of-Authority](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Proof_of_authority) lock script is [provided](https://github.com/xxuejie/clerkb) in current Godwoken deployment. The PoA lock script works as follows:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is the reason why Godwoken only uses the type script in a rollup cell. The lock script is thus left to individual Godwoken deployments, so they can determine the best solution for themselves. Requirements for some might be obstacles for others. As a starting point, and an inspiration for more solutions, a [Proof-of-Authority](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Proof_of_authority) lock script is [provided](https://github.com/xxuejie/clerkb) in current Godwoken deployment. The PoA lock script works as follows:
```

* An existing cell is setup as `PoASetup` cell. See output cell #1 in this [transaction](https://explorer.nervos.org/aggron/transaction/0xf9e630d22d1377b872628a02d352f4ecd8d5b1ee690783017b0194cbc2f57124) for an example, the cell data part for this output cell is as follows:

    ```
    0x012002025a000000010000003b472f23a03429f7eb7c1c1303f80bf4121493ec5442af22077699cd91e01cb0cbe87b9352103850ac8725a2b094f8732188a6b6e292abef6ef2342216980372
    ```

    This contains the [PoASetup](https://github.com/xxuejie/clerkb/blob/f5455b1bbc3155fdd0e4dd96cf0667cc22098a8b/src/config.ts#L7) data structure in a [customized](https://github.com/xxuejie/clerkb/blob/f5455b1bbc3155fdd0e4dd96cf0667cc22098a8b/src/config.ts#L68) serialization format.

> * Apart from aggregator identities, a PoASetup data structure also contains information defining **round internal**. Each aggregator gets its round internal in terms. In a round interval, an aggregator can submit up to a pre-defined number of new layer 2 blocks. A round internal is either determined by on-chain timestamps, or block numbers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Apart from aggregator identities, a PoASetup data structure also contains information defining **round interval**. Each aggregator gets its round interval in terms. In a round interval, an aggregator can submit up to a pre-defined number of new layer 2 blocks. A round interval is either determined by on-chain timestamps, or block numbers.
```

    In the above example, the PoASetup includes 2 aggregators, each aggregator gets a round interval of 90 seconds, where it can issue at most one layer 2 block.
* In an actual transaction unlocking the PoA guarded cell, a different cell named `PoAData` cell must also be updated with PoA information. In the current Godwoken deployment, each transaction contains such `PoAData` cell, an example can be found in output cell #1 of this Godwoken [transaction](https://explorer.nervos.org/aggron/transaction/0x51bee60d0e68bf3735dbaf7ffeea44727cd2112058a22b5a3e259810ce01a0de). The data part for this output cell is:

    ```
    0xa3860e6000000000a3860e6000000000000000000000
    ````

>     This contains the [PoAData](https://github.com/xxuejie/clerkb/blob/f5455b1bbc3155fdd0e4dd96cf0667cc22098a8b/src/config.ts#L16) data structure in a [customized](https://github.com/xxuejie/clerkb/blob/f5455b1bbc3155fdd0e4dd96cf0667cc22098a8b/src/config.ts#L120) serialization format. The PoA lock script uses PoAData cell to update round internal information, such as starting point of current round interval, and progress in current round interval.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    This contains the [PoAData](https://github.com/xxuejie/clerkb/blob/f5455b1bbc3155fdd0e4dd96cf0667cc22098a8b/src/config.ts#L16) data structure in a [customized](https://github.com/xxuejie/clerkb/blob/f5455b1bbc3155fdd0e4dd96cf0667cc22098a8b/src/config.ts#L120) serialization format. The PoA lock script uses PoAData cell to update round interval information, such as the starting point and progress of current round interval.
```

* The identity of each aggregator is proved using the same [owner lock technique](https://github.com/nervosnetwork/rfcs/blob/master/rfcs/0025-simple-udt/0025-simple-udt.md#owner-lock-script) as used in sUDT: the aggregator include a special input cell in the current transaction, the input cell's lock script hash must match the identity included in the PoASetup cell.

> * The aggregators can also start a vote to update the contents in the PoASetup cell. For example, when an aggregator behaves badly, either by not issuing blocks, or issuing too many invalid blocks, the other aggregators can start a vote to upgrade the PoASetup cell, hence removing the misbehaved aggregator. Another example here, is that in the event of congested network, aggregators can vote to alter the round intervals for better performance.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The aggregators can also start a vote to update the contents in the PoASetup cell. For example, when an aggregator behaves badly, either by not issuing blocks, or issuing too many invalid blocks, the other aggregators can start a vote to upgrade the PoASetup cell, hence removing the misbehaved aggregator. Another example is that in the event of congested network, aggregators can vote to alter the round intervals for better performance.
```

# Actions

In this sections we will explain all the actions one can perform on Godwoken, together with technical details related to each action.

## Deposit

> To use Godwoken, one must first deposit some tokens(either CKB or sUDTs) from layer 1 to layer 2. This is named as a **deposit** action. A deposit action is represented as a layer 1 CKB transaction, it must create a special output cell named a **deposition cell**. [Here](https://explorer.nervos.org/aggron/transaction/0x09334d0ab2bf84714f0e51715bb7251a4887aa3066ef5ad0770bd463297c1194) is an example of a deposit action. This transaction deposits 10000 CKB to Godwoken. What is relavant here, is the lock script of output cell #0:

Reviewer 2: `deposit` can be used as either noun. or verb., `deposition` is a different word. I think the output should be called `deposit cell`.

Example:
```suggestion
To use Godwoken, one must first deposit some tokens(either CKB or sUDTs) from layer 1 to layer 2. This is named as a **deposit** action. A deposit action is represented as a layer 1 CKB transaction, it must create a special output cell named a **deposit cell**. [Here](https://explorer.nervos.org/aggron/transaction/0x09334d0ab2bf84714f0e51715bb7251a4887aa3066ef5ad0770bd463297c1194) is an example of a deposit action. This transaction deposits 10000 CKB to Godwoken. What is relavant here, is the lock script of output cell #0:
```

There are more 'deposition' occurences in the remaining article.

```
{
    "code_hash": "0xf412b31445c378d8778b545d81d13d39d3344de7f7e8bd7b18b103a5b13edc6b",
    "args": "0x4fb03f323f32196cce0232d1398b6eba4e36654eb431b8c71aa45b745dbb1e0a8100000010000000300000007900000010291f3d4de6bbd924e2a6a0b5dbe96654540dc789a901c0b8826ae0f7786ea249000000100000003000000031000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000100140000009c11877e58c9822131ef09744856fd6b9ce2fa9e00a30200000000c0",
    "hash_type": "type"
}
```

> `code_hash` and `hash_type` used here is pre-determined by each Godwoken deployment. `args` here contains 2 parts: the first 32 bytes of `args`, contain the **rollup type hash** of the current Godwoken deployment(remember we mentioned earlier, that rollup type hash works like a chain ID?). The remaining part, is the [DepositionLockArgs](https://github.com/nervosnetwork/godwoken/blob/v0.1.0/crates/types/schemas/godwoken.mol#L121) data structure, serialized in molecule format:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`code_hash` and `hash_type` is pre-determined by each Godwoken deployment. `args` contains 2 parts: the first 32 bytes of `args`, contain the **rollup type hash** of the current Godwoken deployment(remember we mentioned earlier, that rollup type hash works like a chain ID?). The second part, is the [DepositionLockArgs](https://github.com/nervosnetwork/godwoken/blob/v0.1.0/crates/types/schemas/godwoken.mol#L121) data structure, serialized in molecule format:
```

* Given an account ID, one can look up for the layer 2 lock script in Godwoken
* Given a layer 2 lock script, there can be at most one account ID using that lock script in current Godwoken deployment

This provides some handy consequences for us:

* A user does not have to remember his/her account ID in a Godwoken deployment. One can only remember his/her wallet address, which can be used to query the correct account ID when translated to layer 2 lock script;
* A layer 2 transaction can only include the account ID, which can be used to query the actual layer 2 lock script to use. This results in smaller layer 2 transaction and bigger throughput.

Now we can have some harmony here: a user can pick any lock script to use in layer 2, while still minimizing layer 2 transaction size. The advantage here, is that we can preserve the same flexibility in layer 1 CKB as well in layer 2 Godwoken: one can freely pick any lock script to use.

> This actually have greater usage here: some of you might already know that we build godwoken together with polyjuice, our Ethereum compatible solution. Naturally, we have an Ethereum compatible lock, that enables you to use [Metamask](https://metamask.io/) together with polyjuice. But the story does not stop here: with a different layer 2 lock that implements, for example, EOS signature validation logic, an EOS wallet can also be empowered to call Ethereum dapps with polyjuice. The whole interoperability power of Nervos CKB, is perserved in Godwoken as well.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This actually have greater usage here: some of you might already know that we build godwoken together with polyjuice, our Ethereum compatible solution. Naturally, we have an Ethereum compatible lock, that enables you to use [Metamask](https://metamask.io/) together with polyjuice. But the story does not stop here: with a different layer 2 lock that implements, for example, EOS signature validation logic, an EOS wallet can also be empowered to call Ethereum dapps with polyjuice. The whole interoperability power of Nervos CKB, is preserved in Godwoken as well.
```

Now we can derive the signature validation rule for a layer 2 Godwoken transaction:

* Using `from_id` in the layer 2 transaction, Godwoken locates the corresponding layer 2 lock script
* The layer 2 lock script is executed to validate the layer 2 transaction

There is one quirk to the above flow here: recall that current Godwoken uses optimistic rollup design. Due to the "optimistic" nature, the layer 2 lock script is not typically executed on chain. It is only executed in the case that a challenger starts a challenge request on chain, and an aggregator proves the validity of the layer 2 transaction via a cancel challenge request. Hence the way to build a layer 2 lock script, is also slightly different here. An example for such a script, can be found [here](https://github.com/nervosnetwork/godwoken/blob/93c161b7dddbf517763f6d653f1f53630914a8eb/c/account_locks/eth_account_lock.c).

> ### Backend

Reviewer 2: :rofl:

> With signature validated, another problem arises: how does Godwoken compute the next on-chain state? **Backends** in Godwoken handles this task.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With signature verified, another problem arises: how does Godwoken compute the next on-layer2-chain state? **Backends** in Godwoken handles this task.
```

Godwoken actually has 2 kinds of accounts:

* Typical user accounts denoted by an account lock
* Contract accounts denoted by a backend script

Ethereum developers would recognize that this design resembles a lot like EOA vs contract account in Ethereum, which is true since Godwoken is inspired from Ethereum here.

> While a typical user account provides ownership for a user, contract account, on the other hand, provides a storage space for an on-chain smart contract. Similar to the way that a user account is created from a general lock script with a user's public key hash, a smart contract for a contract account is created from a **backend** with some special script args. The smart contract is also represented using the unified [Script](https://github.com/nervosnetwork/godwoken/blob/v0.1.0/crates/types/schemas/godwoken.mol#L27-L37) data structure in the Nervos ecosystem: the combination of `code_hash` and `hash_type` in a script identifies the backend, while `args` provide contract account specific arguments.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
While a typical user account is a balance owned by a user, contract account, on the other hand, provides a storage for an on-chain smart contract. Similar to the way that a user account is created from a general lock script with a user's public key hash, a smart contract for a contract account is created from a **backend** with some special script args. The smart contract is also represented using the unified [Script](https://github.com/nervosnetwork/godwoken/blob/v0.1.0/crates/types/schemas/godwoken.mol#L27-L37) data structure in the Nervos ecosystem: the combination of `code_hash` and `hash_type` in a script identifies the backend, while `args` provide contract account specific arguments.
```

> With enough background, the rule for executing backends can be introduced:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Given the above background, the rule for executing backends can be introduced:
```

Notice sUDT contract account is typically created by Godwoken automatically when processing deposition cells. One don't typically create new contract account using sUDT as backend script.

An implementation for the layer 2 sUDT backend can be found [here](https://github.com/nervosnetwork/godwoken/blob/v0.1.0/c/contracts/sudt.c).

#### MetaContract

MetaContract is a special backend in Godwoken:

* It is reserved as account ID 0
* You cannot create a new contract account using MetaContract as the backend

The sole purpose of MetaContract now, is to create contract account given a particular backend.

**TODO**: create polyjuice root account

#### Polyjuice

Polyjuice is the main backend we use now in Godwoken. It allows us to create a contract account using EVM bytecode, the resulting account, will be able to execute smart contracts written for Ethereum. Polyjuice aims at 100% compatibility in EVM level, meaning all programs runnable on Ethereum, can be run on Godwoken powered by Polyjuice.

For more details on polyjuice, please refer to Life of a Polyjuice Transaction(**TODO**: add link when the document is ready).

### Managing Account Locks & Backends

> While one is free to create as many accounts as possible, Godwoken now only supports whitelisted account locks & backends for a security reasons. The list now include:

Reviewer 2: Is 'whitelisted' accurate here? Developers can deploy a new Godwoken instance with different account locks anyway, there is no way to really 'whitelist' account locks.

Author: Whitelist is accurate here, here it means `whitelist` the actual script in the account lock, not the full account lock. While one is free to create new account locks, the underlying script used in account lock is whitelisted now.

* Ethereum compatible account lock
* Layer 2 sUDT backend
* Polyjuice backend

If there is one particular account lock or backend you like, please do not hesistate to let us know. We are interested in a future where an EOS wallet can control an Ethereum app, or a BTC wallet can control a [Diem](https://www.diem.com/en-us/) app. Those are all feasible on Godwoken with the composability of account locks, and backends.

## Withdraw

**Withdraw** action enables one to withdraw tokens from layer 2 Godwoken back to layer 1 CKB. A withdraw action uses the following data structure:

```
struct RawWithdrawalRequest {
    nonce: Uint32,
    capacity: Uint64,
    amount: Uint128,
    sudt_script_hash: Byte32,
    account_script_hash: Byte32,
    sell_amount: Uint128,
    sell_capacity: Uint64,
    owner_lock_hash: Byte32,
    payment_lock_hash: Byte32,
}

vector WithdrawalRequestVec <WithdrawalRequest>;

struct WithdrawalRequest {
    raw: RawWithdrawalRequest,
    signature: Signature,
}
```

Please refer to [this file](https://github.com/nervosnetwork/godwoken/blob/v0.1.0/crates/types/schemas/godwoken.mol#L71-L94) for a more complete definition and related types.

> A `WithdrawalRequest` uses `account_script_hash` as a key to locate the account lock, perform the same signature verification flow as layer 2 transaction. Withdraw action can be used to withdraw CKB and a layer 1 sUDT type simutaneously. Due to CKB's cell model limitation, Godwoken requires each withdraw request to withdraw at least 400 CKB.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A `WithdrawalRequest` uses `account_script_hash` as a key to locate the account lock, perform the same signature verification flow as layer 2 transaction. Withdraw action can be used to withdraw CKB and a layer 1 sUDT type simutaneously. Due to the constraint of CKB's cell model, currently Godwoken requires each withdraw request to withdraw at least 400 CKBytes as an expedient.
```
